help/Minecraft-Bedrock-Edition-Technical/Minecraft-Dedicated-and-Partner-Servers-FAQ.md, before:

---
title: Minecraft Dedicated and Partner Servers FAQ 
date: 2021-09-09T18:46:40Z
updated: 2023-10-31T23:45:25Z
categories: "Minecraft: Bedrock Edition Technical"
tags:
  - title_minecraft
  - category_technical_support
  - subject_how_to_play
  - platform_xbox_one
  - platform_windows_10
  - platform_ios
  - platform_android
  - platform_nintendo_switch
  - category_realms_support
  - subject_other_realms_questions
  - platform_sony_playstation_4
  - platform_kindle_fire
  - platform_oculus
  - platform_other
  - section_12617893243277
  - platform_chromebook
link: https://help.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/4408873961869-Minecraft-Dedicated-and-Partner-Servers-FAQ-
---

*This help article refers to Minecraft: Bedrock Edition for Xbox One, mobile, Windows, Chromebook, and Nintendo Switch. For help with setting up a Minecraft: Java Edition server, please go to *[*Download the Minecraft: Java Edition Server*](https://minecraft.net/en-us/download/server)*.*

This article includes information on Minecraft's dedicated and featured servers.

**Note for Linux users: Ubuntu 18.04 LTS (Bionic Beaver) will reach End of Standard Support in 2023. Accordingly, the Linux Minecraft Dedicated Server will also raise its minimum target Ubuntu version to 20.04 LTS (Focal Fossa) in a later R20 update (exact release to be determined). Minecraft server operators using Ubuntu are encouraged to prepare for this transition by updating their deployments to 20.04 LTS (Focal Fossa) in R20U2 update as soon as possible.**

# In This Article:

- [Dedicated Servers for Minecraft: Bedrock Edition](#dedicated-servers-for-minecraft-bedrock-edition)
  - [What is a dedicated Minecraft: Bedrock Edition Server?](#what-is-a-dedicated-minecraft-bedrock-edition-server)
  - [Who can play on my Dedicated Server?](#who-can-play-on-my-dedicated-server)
  - [How do I download the Dedicated Minecraft: Bedrock Edition Server Software?](#how-do-i-download-the-dedicatedminecraft-bedrock-editionserver-software)
  - [How do I start up the server?](#how-do-i-start-up-the-server)
    - [For Linux:](#for-linux)
    - [For Windows:](#for-windows)
  - [How do Player Enforcement/Allowlists work?](#how-do-player-enforcementallowlists-work)
  - [Where can I find more support?](#where-can-i-find-more-support)
- [Partner Servers for Minecraft: Bedrock Edition](#partner-servers-forminecraft-bedrock-edition)
  - [What are Partner Servers?](#what-are-partner-servers)
  - [Are the Partner Servers free to play?](#are-the-partner-servers-free-to-play)
  - [Can I purchase content in a server store and bring it back to my Minecraft: Bedrock Edition Worlds?](#can-i-purchase-content-in-a-server-store-and-bring-it-back-to-myminecraft-bedrock-editionworlds)
  - [On which platforms are servers available?](#on-which-platforms-are-servers-available)
  - [What version of Minecraft: Bedrock Edition do I need to play servers?](#what-version-ofminecraft-bedrock-editiondo-i-need-to-play-servers)
  - [How can I connect to a Partner Server?](#how-can-iconnect-to-a-partner-server)
  - [What is an Xbox Live account and why do I need one?](#what-is-an-xbox-live-account-and-why-do-i-need-one)
  - [Are Partner Servers safe to play on?](#are-partner-servers-safe-to-play-on)
- [Community Servers for Minecraft](#community-servers-for-minecraft)
  - [What are community servers?](#what-are-community-servers)
  - [Where can I learn more about Community Servers?](#where-can-i-learn-more-about-community-servers)

## DEDICATED SERVERS FOR MINECRAFT: BEDROCK EDITION 

### WHAT IS A DEDICATED MINECRAFT: BEDROCK EDITION SERVER? 

Similar to what has been available for players of Minecraft: Java Edition, dedicated Minecraft: Bedrock Edition servers enable players to set up their own servers at home on Windows and Linux computers, or host their server using a cloud-based service. 

Dedicated servers are hosted by individuals and are not partnered with Minecraft. By contrast, Partner Servers specifically work with Minecraft. Minecraft: Java Edition and Minecraft: Bedrock Edition versions both have dedicated servers, but only Minecraft: Bedrock Edition has Partner servers. 

### WHAT CAN I DO WITH MY DEDICATED MINECRAFT: BEDROCK EDITION SERVER? 

A dedicated Minecraft: Bedrock Edition server gives you the creative power to configure your world to whatever Minecraft experience you want. You could tinker with all of the settings, modes, server life cycle, whitelisting, or anything else! 

### WHO CAN PLAY ON MY DEDICATED SERVER? 

Anyone playing on Minecraft: Bedrock Edition ([including Chromebook](./Minecraft-for-Chromebook-FAQ.md)) will be able to connect to the server, with the current exception of Nintendo Switch users. Also, players on Xbox One can only connect through a LAN connection. If you're not sure if the edition you're playing on is Minecraft: Bedrock Edition, please visit the [Different Minecraft Editions](../Minecraft-Bedrock-Edition-Billing/Different-Minecraft-Editions.md) help article. 

### HOW DO I DOWNLOAD THE DEDICATED MINECRAFT: BEDROCK EDITION SERVER SOFTWARE? 

To download the software required to set up your dedicated Minecraft: Bedrock Edition server, visit the [Download Server Software for Minecraft](https://minecraft.net/en-us/download/server/bedrock) page. 

Your download will include a “How to use the dedicated server” guide that will help you through the installation steps to get you up and running. 

### HOW DO I START UP THE SERVER? 

#### FOR LINUX: 

Unzip the container file into an empty folder. Start the server with the following command: 

LD_LIBRARY_PATH=../bedrock_server 

#### FOR WINDOWS: 

Unzip the container file into an empty folder. Start the server by running the bedrock_server.exe file. 

### HOW DO PLAYER ENFORCEMENT/ALLOWLISTS WORK? 

Allowlisting ensures that only players you specify can play on your server. To have this property available, you need to enable it in your **server.properties **file. When enabled, the server will allow only selected players to connect, and you will need to know the Xbox Live Gamertag of all players who want to join the server. 

Players without an Xbox Live Gamertag will not be able to connect. If your server is public and you do not have the allowlist property enabled, you will not have the ability to remove or ban players from the server. 

To learn more about the allow list, check out the guide that comes with the download. 

### WHERE CAN I FIND MORE SUPPORT? 

The included how-to guide provides installation instructions to get started. Apart from this guide, we do not provide further support for dedicated Minecraft: Bedrock Edition servers. 

If you still think that having your own server sounds great, but you feel technically out of your depth, then you may want to consider if our [Realms](https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/realms) service is suitable for you. 

## PARTNER SERVERS FOR MINECRAFT: BEDROCK EDITION 

### WHAT ARE PARTNER SERVERS? 

Partner Servers are independently crafted, multiplayer experiences hosted by trusted partners in the Minecraft community. Each server includes its own unique content, such as minigames that let players collaborate and compete with others. You are able to purchase various skins and experiences within the server, but we do not allow “pay-to-win” purchases.

This way, you will always be on a level playing field with other players.  Most content on Partner Servers is available for free and, by playing, players can also unlock free items within the server! We currently have five Partner Servers available for players, and more are planned to launch in the coming months.

### ARE THE PARTNER SERVERS FREE TO PLAY? 

Yes, servers are free to play as long as you have Minecraft: Bedrock Edition. However, you must also have Nintendo Switch Online if you’re on a Nintendo Switch, PlayStation®Plus if you are on PlayStation®, or Xbox Game Pass Core or Ultimate if you are on Xbox to access the multiplayer functionality. 

### CAN I PURCHASE CONTENT IN A SERVER STORE AND BRING IT BACK TO MY MINECRAFT: BEDROCK EDITION WORLDS? 

No, the content you purchase within a server store can be used only within that server. However, if you've purchased or downloaded any skins or Character Creator items from the regular Minecraft Marketplace, you can use them on a server. 

### ON WHICH PLATFORMS ARE SERVERS AVAILABLE? 

Servers are available on all Bedrock Edition platforms (Windows, Chromebook, console, and mobile). 

### WHAT VERSION OF MINECRAFT: BEDROCK EDITION DO I NEED TO PLAY SERVERS? 

You need the latest version of Minecraft: Bedrock Edition. Unfortunately, you cannot play Featured Servers on Java Edition. 

### HOW CAN I CONNECT TO A Partner Server? 

It's easy. Look for the **Servers **tab in the Minecraft: Bedrock Edition game menu, choose which Partner Server you want to play on, and select **Join Server**. 

### WHAT IS AN XBOX LIVE ACCOUNT AND WHY DO I NEED ONE? 

An Xbox Live account enables you to get a Gamertag—something you'll need no matter which platform you're playing servers on. You will use that account as your username and profile across the Minecraft: Bedrock Edition universe. 

### ARE PARTNER SERVERS SAFE TO PLAY ON? 

Yes! Because everyone is required to have an Xbox Live account, which includes the player's code of conduct, players of all ages will feel safe and welcome in Servers. Our Partner Servers also have chat filters that will remove any bad language or personal information. Players also can [report anyone](../Minecraft-Bedrock-Edition/Player-and-Server-Griefing-Issues-FAQ.md) who is not following the code of conduct, and our support team can act quickly on any reports of bad behavior. 

Younger players are also kept safe with child accounts, which have multiplayer capabilities disabled by default until a parent or guardian changes their account settings. 

## COMMUNITY SERVERS FOR MINECRAFT 

### WHAT ARE COMMUNITY SERVERS?

Community Servers is a general term to cover the rest of the publicly available Minecraft Servers, whether they are on Java or Bedrock. As noted, Partner Servers are established servers who are running the most current version of Minecraft and are discoverable through the Bedrock Edition client. Servers running our dedicated servers software are generally considered a self-hosted private server. All other servers would be considered community servers.  

### WHERE CAN I LEARN MORE ABOUT COMMUNITY SERVERS?

There are hundreds of community servers online at any given moment. A good place to start learning more about specific community servers is the [Official Minecraft Server List](http://aka.ms/officialminecraftserverlist).

Commit message:

sync: refactor link database, no more database.json

help/Minecraft-Bedrock-Edition-Technical/Minecraft-Dedicated-and-Partner-Servers-FAQ.md, after:

---
title: Minecraft Dedicated and Partner Servers FAQ 
date: 2021-09-09T18:46:40Z
updated: 2023-10-31T23:45:25Z
categories: "Minecraft: Bedrock Edition Technical"
tags:
  - title_minecraft
  - category_technical_support
  - subject_how_to_play
  - platform_xbox_one
  - platform_windows_10
  - platform_ios
  - platform_android
  - platform_nintendo_switch
  - category_realms_support
  - subject_other_realms_questions
  - platform_sony_playstation_4
  - platform_kindle_fire
  - platform_oculus
  - platform_other
  - section_12617893243277
  - platform_chromebook
link: https://help.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/4408873961869-Minecraft-Dedicated-and-Partner-Servers-FAQ
hash:
  h_01HE3RWXZ59BNRYDRDVSSMX8X6: in-this-article
  h_01HE3RY9HPD7RY92E66CQPRGPS: dedicated-servers-for-minecraft-bedrock-edition
  h_01HE3RYHSA3T5PNG66RRP4V0XT: what-is-a-dedicated-minecraft-bedrock-edition-server
  h_01HE3RZV4ADDZCA8RD6BATHH7D: what-can-i-do-with-my-dedicated-minecraft-bedrock-edition-server
  h_01HE3S05BYA9V697PJY5HN07Q8: who-can-play-on-my-dedicated-server
  h_01HE3S0B62PXM9RWKYCN1PK48M: how-do-i-download-the-dedicatedminecraft-bedrock-editionserver-software
  h_01HE3S0X2GZ92M9VHT7NCCJTYB: how-do-i-start-up-the-server
  h_01HE3S13NT0GVXE8BBKBGB7XCH: for-linux
  h_01HE3S170XYK2CQV34YJ1QPTKT: for-windows
  h_01HE3S1DZQYFB1PTPWHG6Z3RS1: how-do-player-enforcementallowlists-work
  h_01HE3S1TBYAGNT041C6DD45AGT: where-can-i-find-more-support
  h_01HE3S24X09ZKK5ENYT1XKXJZB: partner-servers-forminecraft-bedrock-edition
  h_01HE3S2MZ6AC4PXMCCC8A9YPH7: what-are-partner-servers
  h_01HE3S38APBFZNZ858FTGV6H2G: are-the-partner-servers-free-to-play
  h_01HE3S3DNMXFBNWZCDCF5GE4FB: can-i-purchase-content-in-a-server-store-and-bring-it-back-to-myminecraft-bedrock-editionworlds
  h_01HE3S3HNR8AHE676DSBD6JXZK: on-which-platforms-are-servers-available
  h_01HE3S3Y7Z497VEC6Q31W8Q5H6: what-version-ofminecraft-bedrock-editiondo-i-need-to-play-servers
  h_01HE3S471KZ188ZR0WX47X6T4Y: how-can-iconnect-to-a-partner-server
  h_01HE3S5PHH9TR56S5SQ6RCDE56: what-is-an-xbox-live-account-and-why-do-i-need-one
  h_01HE3S5VPZ2JS6E0Q174BQVHCP: are-partner-servers-safe-to-play-on
  h_01HE3S6ABZFDHMVX24E3K7HC0M: community-servers-for-minecraft
  h_01HE3S6DQHXV23F4DF31W699S4: what-are-community-servers
  h_01HE3S7E0C8PGJKE3S8JGV4ERK: where-can-i-learn-more-about-community-servers
---

*This help article refers to Minecraft: Bedrock Edition for Xbox One, mobile, Windows, Chromebook, and Nintendo Switch. For help with setting up a Minecraft: Java Edition server, please go to *[*Download the Minecraft: Java Edition Server*](https://minecraft.net/en-us/download/server)*.*

This article includes information on Minecraft's dedicated and featured servers.

**Note for Linux users: Ubuntu 18.04 LTS (Bionic Beaver) will reach End of Standard Support in 2023. Accordingly, the Linux Minecraft Dedicated Server will also raise its minimum target Ubuntu version to 20.04 LTS (Focal Fossa) in a later R20 update (exact release to be determined). Minecraft server operators using Ubuntu are encouraged to prepare for this transition by updating their deployments to 20.04 LTS (Focal Fossa) in R20U2 update as soon as possible.**

# In This Article:

- [Dedicated Servers for Minecraft: Bedrock Edition](#dedicated-servers-for-minecraft-bedrock-edition)
  - [What is a dedicated Minecraft: Bedrock Edition Server?](#what-is-a-dedicated-minecraft-bedrock-edition-server)
  - [Who can play on my Dedicated Server?](#who-can-play-on-my-dedicated-server)
  - [How do I download the Dedicated Minecraft: Bedrock Edition Server Software?](#how-do-i-download-the-dedicatedminecraft-bedrock-editionserver-software)
  - [How do I start up the server?](#how-do-i-start-up-the-server)
    - [For Linux:](#for-linux)
    - [For Windows:](#for-windows)
  - [How do Player Enforcement/Allowlists work?](#how-do-player-enforcementallowlists-work)
  - [Where can I find more support?](#where-can-i-find-more-support)
- [Partner Servers for Minecraft: Bedrock Edition](#partner-servers-forminecraft-bedrock-edition)
  - [What are Partner Servers?](#what-are-partner-servers)
  - [Are the Partner Servers free to play?](#are-the-partner-servers-free-to-play)
  - [Can I purchase content in a server store and bring it back to my Minecraft: Bedrock Edition Worlds?](#can-i-purchase-content-in-a-server-store-and-bring-it-back-to-myminecraft-bedrock-editionworlds)
  - [On which platforms are servers available?](#on-which-platforms-are-servers-available)
  - [What version of Minecraft: Bedrock Edition do I need to play servers?](#what-version-ofminecraft-bedrock-editiondo-i-need-to-play-servers)
  - [How can I connect to a Partner Server?](#how-can-iconnect-to-a-partner-server)
  - [What is an Xbox Live account and why do I need one?](#what-is-an-xbox-live-account-and-why-do-i-need-one)
  - [Are Partner Servers safe to play on?](#are-partner-servers-safe-to-play-on)
- [Community Servers for Minecraft](#community-servers-for-minecraft)
  - [What are community servers?](#what-are-community-servers)
  - [Where can I learn more about Community Servers?](#where-can-i-learn-more-about-community-servers)

## DEDICATED SERVERS FOR MINECRAFT: BEDROCK EDITION 

### WHAT IS A DEDICATED MINECRAFT: BEDROCK EDITION SERVER? 

Similar to what has been available for players of Minecraft: Java Edition, dedicated Minecraft: Bedrock Edition servers enable players to set up their own servers at home on Windows and Linux computers, or host their server using a cloud-based service. 

Dedicated servers are hosted by individuals and are not partnered with Minecraft. By contrast, Partner Servers specifically work with Minecraft. Minecraft: Java Edition and Minecraft: Bedrock Edition versions both have dedicated servers, but only Minecraft: Bedrock Edition has Partner servers. 

### WHAT CAN I DO WITH MY DEDICATED MINECRAFT: BEDROCK EDITION SERVER? 

A dedicated Minecraft: Bedrock Edition server gives you the creative power to configure your world to whatever Minecraft experience you want. You could tinker with all of the settings, modes, server life cycle, whitelisting, or anything else! 

### WHO CAN PLAY ON MY DEDICATED SERVER? 

Anyone playing on Minecraft: Bedrock Edition ([including Chromebook](./Minecraft-for-Chromebook-FAQ.md)) will be able to connect to the server, with the current exception of Nintendo Switch users. Also, players on Xbox One can only connect through a LAN connection. If you're not sure if the edition you're playing on is Minecraft: Bedrock Edition, please visit the [Different Minecraft Editions](../Minecraft-Bedrock-Edition-Billing/Different-Minecraft-Editions.md) help article. 

### HOW DO I DOWNLOAD THE DEDICATED MINECRAFT: BEDROCK EDITION SERVER SOFTWARE? 

To download the software required to set up your dedicated Minecraft: Bedrock Edition server, visit the [Download Server Software for Minecraft](https://minecraft.net/en-us/download/server/bedrock) page. 

Your download will include a “How to use the dedicated server” guide that will help you through the installation steps to get you up and running. 

### HOW DO I START UP THE SERVER? 

#### FOR LINUX: 

Unzip the container file into an empty folder. Start the server with the following command: 

LD_LIBRARY_PATH=../bedrock_server 

#### FOR WINDOWS: 

Unzip the container file into an empty folder. Start the server by running the bedrock_server.exe file. 

### HOW DO PLAYER ENFORCEMENT/ALLOWLISTS WORK? 

Allowlisting ensures that only players you specify can play on your server. To have this property available, you need to enable it in your **server.properties **file. When enabled, the server will allow only selected players to connect, and you will need to know the Xbox Live Gamertag of all players who want to join the server. 

Players without an Xbox Live Gamertag will not be able to connect. If your server is public and you do not have the allowlist property enabled, you will not have the ability to remove or ban players from the server. 

To learn more about the allow list, check out the guide that comes with the download. 

### WHERE CAN I FIND MORE SUPPORT? 

The included how-to guide provides installation instructions to get started. Apart from this guide, we do not provide further support for dedicated Minecraft: Bedrock Edition servers. 

If you still think that having your own server sounds great, but you feel technically out of your depth, then you may want to consider if our [Realms](https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/realms) service is suitable for you. 

## PARTNER SERVERS FOR MINECRAFT: BEDROCK EDITION 

### WHAT ARE PARTNER SERVERS? 

Partner Servers are independently crafted, multiplayer experiences hosted by trusted partners in the Minecraft community. Each server includes its own unique content, such as minigames that let players collaborate and compete with others. You are able to purchase various skins and experiences within the server, but we do not allow “pay-to-win” purchases.

This way, you will always be on a level playing field with other players.  Most content on Partner Servers is available for free and, by playing, players can also unlock free items within the server! We currently have five Partner Servers available for players, and more are planned to launch in the coming months.

### ARE THE PARTNER SERVERS FREE TO PLAY? 

Yes, servers are free to play as long as you have Minecraft: Bedrock Edition. However, you must also have Nintendo Switch Online if you’re on a Nintendo Switch, PlayStation®Plus if you are on PlayStation®, or Xbox Game Pass Core or Ultimate if you are on Xbox to access the multiplayer functionality. 

### CAN I PURCHASE CONTENT IN A SERVER STORE AND BRING IT BACK TO MY MINECRAFT: BEDROCK EDITION WORLDS? 

No, the content you purchase within a server store can be used only within that server. However, if you've purchased or downloaded any skins or Character Creator items from the regular Minecraft Marketplace, you can use them on a server. 

### ON WHICH PLATFORMS ARE SERVERS AVAILABLE? 

Servers are available on all Bedrock Edition platforms (Windows, Chromebook, console, and mobile). 

### WHAT VERSION OF MINECRAFT: BEDROCK EDITION DO I NEED TO PLAY SERVERS? 

You need the latest version of Minecraft: Bedrock Edition. Unfortunately, you cannot play Featured Servers on Java Edition. 

### HOW CAN I CONNECT TO A Partner Server? 

It's easy. Look for the **Servers **tab in the Minecraft: Bedrock Edition game menu, choose which Partner Server you want to play on, and select **Join Server**. 

### WHAT IS AN XBOX LIVE ACCOUNT AND WHY DO I NEED ONE? 

An Xbox Live account enables you to get a Gamertag—something you'll need no matter which platform you're playing servers on. You will use that account as your username and profile across the Minecraft: Bedrock Edition universe. 

### ARE PARTNER SERVERS SAFE TO PLAY ON? 

Yes! Because everyone is required to have an Xbox Live account, which includes the player's code of conduct, players of all ages will feel safe and welcome in Servers. Our Partner Servers also have chat filters that will remove any bad language or personal information. Players also can [report anyone](../Minecraft-Bedrock-Edition/Player-and-Server-Griefing-Issues-FAQ.md) who is not following the code of conduct, and our support team can act quickly on any reports of bad behavior. 

Younger players are also kept safe with child accounts, which have multiplayer capabilities disabled by default until a parent or guardian changes their account settings. 

## COMMUNITY SERVERS FOR MINECRAFT 

### WHAT ARE COMMUNITY SERVERS?

Community Servers is a general term to cover the rest of the publicly available Minecraft Servers, whether they are on Java or Bedrock. As noted, Partner Servers are established servers who are running the most current version of Minecraft and are discoverable through the Bedrock Edition client. Servers running our dedicated servers software are generally considered a self-hosted private server. All other servers would be considered community servers.  

### WHERE CAN I LEARN MORE ABOUT COMMUNITY SERVERS?

There are hundreds of community servers online at any given moment. A good place to start learning more about specific community servers is the [Official Minecraft Server List](http://aka.ms/officialminecraftserverlist).
