help/Minecraft-Bedrock-Edition-Technical/Nintendo-Switch-Technical-Support-FAQ.md, before:

---
title: Nintendo Switch Technical Support FAQ
date: 2021-09-09T22:41:11Z
updated: 2023-09-25T18:47:49Z
categories: "Minecraft: Bedrock Edition Technical"
tags:
  - section_12617893243277
link: https://help.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/4408894129933-Nintendo-Switch-Technical-Support-FAQ
---

***Note: As of June 21, 2018, Minecraft: Nintendo Switch Edition (2017) is no longer available for purchase from the Nintendo eShop. Existing owners can continue to play and be able to download this version again if needed.* **

**Otherwise, players on the Nintendo Switch must download Minecraft: Bedrock Edition.**

This article details technical support processes for Minecraft: Bedrock Edition players on Nintendo Switch.

# In This Article:

- [Minecraft on Nintendo Consoles ](#minecraft-on-nintendo-consoles)
  - [Where can I buy Minecraft for Nintendo Switch? ](#where-can-i-buyminecraftfor-nintendo-switch)
  - [What features does it have? ](#what-features-does-it-have)
  - [Where can I get help with the Nintendo editions of Minecraft? ](#wherecani-gethelp-with-the-nintendo-editions-of-minecraft)
  - [What is the Bedrock version of Minecraft? ](#what-is-minecraft-bedrock-edition)
  - [How does this version differ from the one I already own? ](#how-does-this-version-differ-from-the-one-i-already-own)
  - [I already own Minecraft: Nintendo Switch Edition, so how do I get this new version? ](#ialreadyown-minecraft-nintendoswitchedition-so-how-do-i-get-this-new-version)
  - [Will DLC content I currently own transfer over to the new version of Minecraft? ](#will-downloadable-content-dlc-i-currently-own-transfer-over-to-the-new-version-of-minecraft-bedrock-edition)
  - [What’s a Microsoft account and why do I need it for a Nintendo Switch? ](#whats-a-microsoft-account-and-why-do-i-need-it-for-a-nintendo-switch)
  - [Now that I have a Microsoft account, how do I sign into it from my Nintendo Switch? ](#nowthat-ihave-amicrosoftaccounthow-do-i-sign-into-it-from-my-nintendo-switch)
  - [How do I find my friends on their Microsoft account? ](#how-do-i-find-my-friends-on-their-microsoft-account)
  - [I keep entering my friend’s Gamertag into cross-platform friends and can’t find them. Why? ](#i-keep-entering-my-friends-gamertag-into-cross-platformfriendsandcant-findthem-why)
  - [Do I need to pay a subscription fee like Xbox Game Pass Core to play online?](#do-i-need-to-pay-a-subscription-fee-like-xbox-game-pass-core-to-play-online)
- [What is Minecraft Marketplace? ](#what-is-minecraft-marketplace)
  - [What are Minecoins?](#what-areminecoins)
- [Do my existing worlds transfer? ](#do-my-existing-worlds-transfer)
- [How To Transfer Worlds from Wii U to Nintendo Switch ](#how-to-transfer-worlds-from-wii-u-to-nintendo-switch)
  - [How do I transfer existing worlds from Minecraft for Nintendo Switch to another version of Minecraft? ](#how-do-i-transfer-existing-worlds-from-minecraft-bedrock-edition-for-nintendo-switch-to-another-version-of-minecraft)
  - [How big are worlds in this version of Minecraft for Nintendo Switch? ](#how-big-are-worlds-in-this-version-of-minecraft-bedrock-edition-for-nintendo-switch)
  - [I’m playing in a world that was transferred from the previous version. Does it have any size limitations? ](#im-playing-in-a-world-that-was-transferred-from-the-previous-version-does-it-have-any-size-limitations)
  - [Can I play Realms on this edition? ](#can-i-play-realms-on-this-edition)
  - [What additional content is included? ](#what-additional-content-isincluded)
  - [Can my friends on Xbox play the Super Mario Mash-Up? ](#can-my-friends-on-xbox-play-the-super-mario-mash-up)
  - [How do I link my previous purchases on other Minecraft Bedrock versions to my Switch version? ](#how-do-i-link-my-previous-purchases-on-other-minecraft-bedrock-editions-to-my-switch-version)
  - [I own Minecraft: Nintendo Switch Edition and I've purchased previous DLC. How do I get it to sync to Minecraft?](#i-own-minecraft-nintendo-switch-edition-and-ive-purchased-previous-dlc-how-do-i-get-it-to-sync-to-minecraft-bedrock-edition)
- [Issues with Lagging or Crashing for Nintendo Switch ](#issues-with-lagging-or-crashing-for-nintendo-switch)

## Minecraft on Nintendo Consoles 

You can play Minecraft: Bedrock Edition on Nintendo Switch and Wii U consoles.   

### Where can I buy Minecraft for Nintendo Switch? 

You can buy Minecraft: Bedrock Edition in the eShop on your Nintendo device. It's priced at \$29.99 or your local equivalent and comes bundled with some of our most popular add-on packs.   

You can also purchase [Minecraft: Deluxe Edition for \$39.99](https://minecrafthelp.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/11211565784589).

### What features does it have? 

For information about platform-specific features, please check out the eShop page for specific editions: 

- [Minecraft: Bedrock Edition for Nintendo Switch](https://www.nintendo.com/games/detail/minecraft-switch/) 
- [Minecraft: Wii U Edition](https://www.nintendo.com/games/detail/minecraft-wii-u-edition) 

For information about the most up-to-date features for these editions, please check the version history: 

[Nintendo Switch and Wii U](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Legacy_Console_Edition_version_history)   

### Where can I get help with the Nintendo editions of Minecraft? 

- For help with your games, purchases, accounts, or hardware, please visit [Nintendo Customer Support](https://www.nintendo.com/consumer). 
- For technical support with your Nintendo device, visit [Nintendo Customer Support](http://techforums.nintendo.com/community/). 
- If you have suggestions or want to take part in discussions, you can check out [Minecraft Forums](https://www.minecraftforum.net/forums/minecraft-editions). 
- You can find additional information in the [Minecraft for Nintendo Switch FAQ](https://support.xbox.com/en-GB/help/games-apps/game-titles/minecraft-switch-edition-faq). 
- If you think you've found a bug, you can report it in the [Minecraft bug tracker](https://bugs.mojang.com/secure/Dashboard.jspa).   

### What is Minecraft: Bedrock Edition? 

Minecraft: Bedrock Edition has been the codebase on mobile and Windows 10 and above since 2012. 

### How does this version differ from the one I already own? 

Minecraft: Bedrock Edition delivers a united experience to players on all platforms that use this codebase. Build with friends via cross-play on other console platforms and mobile devices, play multiplayer mini-games through servers, and customize how you play with community content available through the in-game Marketplace. 

### I already own Minecraft: Nintendo Switch Edition, so how do I get this new version? 

Players who already own Minecraft: Nintendo Switch Edition can download the new version of Minecraft: Bedrock Edition free of charge. Either follow the prompts in-game to download or find it directly in the Nintendo eShop. 

### Will downloadable content (DLC) I currently own transfer over to the new version of Minecraft: Bedrock Edition? 

All existing DLC content will be transferred automatically from Minecraft: Nintendo Switch Edition to Minecraft: Bedrock Edition. 

### What’s a Microsoft account and why do I need it for a Nintendo Switch? 

A Microsoft account is a free account you use to sign in on a device that allows Minecraft: Bedrock Edition players on Switch to play with others on non-Nintendo devices such as iOS, Android, Xbox One, and Windows 10 (and above) via cross-play, Realms, or Servers.

Having a Microsoft account also enables the portability of your Minecoins and Marketplace purchases to other devices and platforms. For more information go to the Xbox.com article, [Minecraft for Nintendo Switch FAQ](https://support.xbox.com/en-GB/help/games-apps/game-titles/minecraft-switch-edition-faq). To create an account, go to the [How to Manage Parental Consent, Family Settings and Realms/Multiplayer Access for a Child Account](../Minecraft-Bedrock-Edition/How-to-Manage-Parental-Consent-Family-Settings-and-Realms-Multiplayer-Access-for-a-Child-Account.md) page. 

### Now that I have a Microsoft account, how do I sign into it from my Nintendo Switch? 

- On the Minecraft: Bedrock Edition game home screen, click **Sign in with a Microsoft account**. 
- You’ll see a screen asking you for a unique eight-digit code. 
- Enter the URL shown on the screen on another device (PC or mobile phone). 
- Follow the instructions on the website by entering the code and to finish signing into your Microsoft account.   

### How do I find my friends on their Microsoft account? 

- Now that you’ve signed into your Microsoft account, select **Play** on the home screen. 
- Toggle to the right onto the **Friends** tab. 
- Select the button to **Add Friend**.
- Find friends by entering their Microsoft Gamertags. 

### I keep entering my friend’s Gamertag into cross-platform friends and can’t find them. Why? 

Make sure you enter your friend’s Gamertag correctly. Please note that you are only able to enter Microsoft Gamertags. Player IDs from other platforms are not supported at this time. You can also try having your friend add you instead to see if that works for you. 

### Do I need to pay a subscription fee like Xbox Game Pass Core to play online? 

Online subscription fees are determined by the platform you play on, so an Xbox Live subscription is not required for Nintendo Switch players, but a Nintendo Switch Online subscription is required for multiplayer when that service launches. We recommend a free Microsoft account for players to get the most out of Minecraft: Bedrock Edition. 

## What is Minecraft Marketplace? 

The Minecraft Marketplace is the name of our in-game store. New character skins, textures, and worlds made by creators in the Minecraft community are available through the Marketplace for Minecraft: Bedrock Edition. With Minecraft Marketplace, we've made it safer and easier to purchase community-made content for Minecraft: Bedrock Edition. Buy content once while signed in with a Microsoft account and enjoy it on any supported device with no expiration. 

### What are Minecoins? 

Minecoins (Minecraft coins) let you buy content from creators in our Marketplace, safely and securely. You can purchase them with real currency in the game store and eShop. Coins are kept in your virtual wallet and can also be used on Minecraft: Bedrock Edition for Android, iOS, Chromebook, Xbox One and Xbox Series consoles, and Windows 10 (and above) if you have a Microsoft account. 

## Do my existing worlds transfer? 

Yes, your existing worlds from Minecraft: Nintendo Switch Edition will convert over to Minecraft: Bedrock Edition.  

## How To Transfer Worlds from Wii U to Nintendo Switch  

You can move your saved world files from Minecraft on the Nintendo Wii U to Minecraft: Bedrock Edition on the Nintendo Switch.   

- Turn on both your Wii U and your Switch and launch Minecraft. They will both need to be on for the transfer.     
  **Tip**: The easiest way to do this is to have the Wii U connected to the TV and the Switch in handheld mode.  
- **Play Game** on the Wii U, then on the main menu of the Wii U edition of Minecraft, press **Play Game**.  
- Connect to Nintendo Network; you must be online.    
- Highlight the desired save file, then hover over the save file you wish to transfer.  
- Access **Save Options** and select **Transfer save to Nintendo Switch.** Press **X** to access **Save Options**.  
- Confirm save file transfer and then press the **OK** button.  
- Wait for the Switch to accept the transfer. Once completed, press **Play Game** on your Nintendo Switch, then on the main menu on the Switch, press **Play Game**.   
- Connect to Nintendo Network; you must be online.   
- On the **Load** tab, press **Y** to select **Transfer save from Wii U**.    
- Confirm save file transfer and press **OK**.  
- When a connection with the Wii U is established and the transfer is complete on the Wii U and on the Switch, confirm the transfer for both.   
- Access the **Load** tab and load the transferred save file. On the **Load** tab, where you normally load your worlds, you should see the newly transferred save file. Select it and enter the world. 
- Enjoy the world on your Switch! 

### How do I transfer existing worlds from Minecraft: Bedrock Edition for Nintendo Switch to another version of Minecraft? 

*In Minecraft: Bedrock Edition:* 

- If you select the **Sync Old Worlds** button at the bottom of the worlds list in the play menu, it finds any worlds on the device from the Minecraft: Nintendo Switch Edition (developed by 4J Studios) and displays them below the button. 
- Select any of the newly found worlds to convert them Minecraft: Bedrock Edition. 
- After conversion, the world shows up above the **Sync Old Worlds** button with the rest of your Bedrock worlds. 

### How big are worlds in this version of Minecraft: Bedrock Edition for Nintendo Switch? 

World size is infinite in Minecraft: Bedrock Edition for Nintendo Switch. 

### I’m playing in a world that was transferred from the previous version. Does it have any size limitations? 

Transferring to Minecraft: Bedrock Edition changes the world type to infinite, keeping the portions of the world from the 4J version the same, but generating new chunks outside of that area. 

### Can I play Realms on this edition? 

Yes, Realms is available on Minecraft: Bedrock Edition for Nintendo Switch. To play online on a Nintendo Switch, you must have a Nintendo Switch Online subscription, so this is a requirement for playing on Realms. Learn more information about [Nintendo Switch Online](https://www.nintendo.com/switch/online-service). 

### What additional content is included? 

The Super Mario Mash-Up Pack is preinstalled with the game. You can download the remaining content (Natural Texture pack, Biome Settlers Skin pack, Battle & Beasts Skin pack, Campfire Tales Skin pack) from the in-game store. 

### Can my friends on Xbox play the Super Mario Mash-Up? 

No, the Super Mario Mash-Up is playable only by Nintendo Switch owners in single player, split screen, local network, and over Nintendo Switch Online. 

### How do I link my previous purchases on other Minecraft: Bedrock Editions to my Switch version? 

Log into Minecraft and sign into your Microsoft account. All your content will sync automatically with other purchases you’ve made with Minecraft: Bedrock Edition on other platforms. 

### I own Minecraft: Nintendo Switch Edition and I've purchased previous DLC. How do I get it to sync to Minecraft: Bedrock Edition? 

- Log into Minecraft: Nintendo Switch Edition on your Nintendo Switch account. This will sync the latest purchases. 
- Log into Minecraft: Bedrock Edition on your Nintendo Switch and you'll automatically be granted the entitlements for that DLC. 

**Note: For every purchase, you made on the previous version, you must first log into Minecraft: Nintendo Switch Edition, exit, and then launch Minecraft: Bedrock Edition for your purchases to sync. DLC purchased within Minecraft: Nintendo Switch Edition will remain only on your Nintendo Switch device and will not transfer to other devices. **

## Issues with Lagging or Crashing for Nintendo Switch 

If you are experiencing any issues with lagging, crashing, or hanging on the Switch, you may be able to solve your issue with a full restart.  

- Fully restart your console from the power options in settings.   
- Select and launch Minecraft without opening other games or apps.   

**Note: If this did not solve your issue, as a temporary workaround, try not signing into a Microsoft account. While you won't have access to servers, Realms, or possibly Marketplace content, you can play single-player & split-screen worlds.  **

**Additional note: Please note that the Nintendo Switch is an older console, and it may struggle to run newer versions of Minecraft: Bedrock Edition.**

If you still have issues with gameplay performance, contact [Minecraft Support](https://aka.ms/Minecraft-Support) or submit a [bug report here](https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/bugs).

Commit message:

sync: refactor link database, no more database.json

help/Minecraft-Bedrock-Edition-Technical/Nintendo-Switch-Technical-Support-FAQ.md, after:

---
title: Nintendo Switch Technical Support FAQ
date: 2021-09-09T22:41:11Z
updated: 2023-09-25T18:47:49Z
categories: "Minecraft: Bedrock Edition Technical"
tags:
  - section_12617893243277
link: https://help.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/4408894129933-Nintendo-Switch-Technical-Support-FAQ
hash:
  h_01HA83TBTREZKMB0YMVVM6S6ZX: in-this-article
  h_01GK58W05ZYMWZMVV6GTQPYZMC: minecraft-on-nintendo-consoles
  h_01GK58W57QPG6WR6SKM10GAY74: where-can-i-buyminecraftfor-nintendo-switch
  h_01GK58WA5C8NFE1BPJMS3XSWNR: what-features-does-it-have
  h_01GK58WGQGD61YRNPW92N9SQAE: wherecani-gethelp-with-the-nintendo-editions-of-minecraft
  h_01GK58WQPZT35YP4E04RB968NP: what-is-minecraft-bedrock-edition
  h_01GK58WZGF5YY1FATVY465ABGR: how-does-this-version-differ-from-the-one-i-already-own
  h_01GK58X4XK0PAGZQMMKXYQ1VNZ: ialreadyown-minecraft-nintendoswitchedition-so-how-do-i-get-this-new-version
  h_01GK58XBRA4SQ6GZV8W0E46KGJ: will-downloadable-content-dlc-i-currently-own-transfer-over-to-the-new-version-of-minecraft-bedrock-edition
  h_01GK58XR39A4VZN9HX4BG769JV: whats-a-microsoft-account-and-why-do-i-need-it-for-a-nintendo-switch
  h_01GK58XY9SSH50BQ8DBX26YY2Q: nowthat-ihave-amicrosoftaccounthow-do-i-sign-into-it-from-my-nintendo-switch
  h_01GK58Y6Y2S66Y5WT9DVT6BTV1: how-do-i-find-my-friends-on-their-microsoft-account
  h_01GK58YM7ZKR180PMVZX21XHX3: i-keep-entering-my-friends-gamertag-into-cross-platformfriendsandcant-findthem-why
  h_01GK58YYXSEBHX9QHQPDDK0ZM5: do-i-need-to-pay-a-subscription-fee-like-xbox-game-pass-core-to-play-online
  h_01GK58Z8KCYJG362C3VVT9TJXF: what-is-minecraft-marketplace
  h_01GK591V6EPJEB9GJZV8HP77RZ: what-areminecoins
  h_01GK5923CZ3EPZJMK6SQQCZE83: do-my-existing-worlds-transfer
  h_01GK592WBRT6SVD6RF8DYNQ18K: how-to-transfer-worlds-from-wii-u-to-nintendo-switch
  h_01GK593EMX87A5JS4C5Y0AB1FM: how-do-i-transfer-existing-worlds-from-minecraft-bedrock-edition-for-nintendo-switch-to-another-version-of-minecraft
  h_01GK593R8Q63DZE8318NETV2Q0: how-big-are-worlds-in-this-version-of-minecraft-bedrock-edition-for-nintendo-switch
  h_01GK5940PPV56GWP1E9Q11QY93: im-playing-in-a-world-that-was-transferred-from-the-previous-version-does-it-have-any-size-limitations
  h_01GK594AGT2DE4W27P84WBMADV: can-i-play-realms-on-this-edition
  h_01GK594JS1RQMYGF39SRT9J1ST: what-additional-content-isincluded
  h_01GK594S07R889GJG6NB5PTC51: can-my-friends-on-xbox-play-the-super-mario-mash-up
  h_01GK5950M08PHGN6ZSR9XYG7GG: how-do-i-link-my-previous-purchases-on-other-minecraft-bedrock-editions-to-my-switch-version
  h_01GK595A1WJ95937GNZTASE894: i-own-minecraft-nintendo-switch-edition-and-ive-purchased-previous-dlc-how-do-i-get-it-to-sync-to-minecraft-bedrock-edition
  h_01GK595K6MBPNA3ZAW93CSHPZ5: issues-with-lagging-or-crashing-for-nintendo-switch
---

***Note: As of June 21, 2018, Minecraft: Nintendo Switch Edition (2017) is no longer available for purchase from the Nintendo eShop. Existing owners can continue to play and be able to download this version again if needed.* **

**Otherwise, players on the Nintendo Switch must download Minecraft: Bedrock Edition.**

This article details technical support processes for Minecraft: Bedrock Edition players on Nintendo Switch.

# In This Article:

- [Minecraft on Nintendo Consoles ](#minecraft-on-nintendo-consoles)
  - [Where can I buy Minecraft for Nintendo Switch? ](#where-can-i-buyminecraftfor-nintendo-switch)
  - [What features does it have? ](#what-features-does-it-have)
  - [Where can I get help with the Nintendo editions of Minecraft? ](#wherecani-gethelp-with-the-nintendo-editions-of-minecraft)
  - [What is the Bedrock version of Minecraft? ](#what-is-minecraft-bedrock-edition)
  - [How does this version differ from the one I already own? ](#how-does-this-version-differ-from-the-one-i-already-own)
  - [I already own Minecraft: Nintendo Switch Edition, so how do I get this new version? ](#ialreadyown-minecraft-nintendoswitchedition-so-how-do-i-get-this-new-version)
  - [Will DLC content I currently own transfer over to the new version of Minecraft? ](#will-downloadable-content-dlc-i-currently-own-transfer-over-to-the-new-version-of-minecraft-bedrock-edition)
  - [What’s a Microsoft account and why do I need it for a Nintendo Switch? ](#whats-a-microsoft-account-and-why-do-i-need-it-for-a-nintendo-switch)
  - [Now that I have a Microsoft account, how do I sign into it from my Nintendo Switch? ](#nowthat-ihave-amicrosoftaccounthow-do-i-sign-into-it-from-my-nintendo-switch)
  - [How do I find my friends on their Microsoft account? ](#how-do-i-find-my-friends-on-their-microsoft-account)
  - [I keep entering my friend’s Gamertag into cross-platform friends and can’t find them. Why? ](#i-keep-entering-my-friends-gamertag-into-cross-platformfriendsandcant-findthem-why)
  - [Do I need to pay a subscription fee like Xbox Game Pass Core to play online?](#do-i-need-to-pay-a-subscription-fee-like-xbox-game-pass-core-to-play-online)
- [What is Minecraft Marketplace? ](#what-is-minecraft-marketplace)
  - [What are Minecoins?](#what-areminecoins)
- [Do my existing worlds transfer? ](#do-my-existing-worlds-transfer)
- [How To Transfer Worlds from Wii U to Nintendo Switch ](#how-to-transfer-worlds-from-wii-u-to-nintendo-switch)
  - [How do I transfer existing worlds from Minecraft for Nintendo Switch to another version of Minecraft? ](#how-do-i-transfer-existing-worlds-from-minecraft-bedrock-edition-for-nintendo-switch-to-another-version-of-minecraft)
  - [How big are worlds in this version of Minecraft for Nintendo Switch? ](#how-big-are-worlds-in-this-version-of-minecraft-bedrock-edition-for-nintendo-switch)
  - [I’m playing in a world that was transferred from the previous version. Does it have any size limitations? ](#im-playing-in-a-world-that-was-transferred-from-the-previous-version-does-it-have-any-size-limitations)
  - [Can I play Realms on this edition? ](#can-i-play-realms-on-this-edition)
  - [What additional content is included? ](#what-additional-content-isincluded)
  - [Can my friends on Xbox play the Super Mario Mash-Up? ](#can-my-friends-on-xbox-play-the-super-mario-mash-up)
  - [How do I link my previous purchases on other Minecraft Bedrock versions to my Switch version? ](#how-do-i-link-my-previous-purchases-on-other-minecraft-bedrock-editions-to-my-switch-version)
  - [I own Minecraft: Nintendo Switch Edition and I've purchased previous DLC. How do I get it to sync to Minecraft?](#i-own-minecraft-nintendo-switch-edition-and-ive-purchased-previous-dlc-how-do-i-get-it-to-sync-to-minecraft-bedrock-edition)
- [Issues with Lagging or Crashing for Nintendo Switch ](#issues-with-lagging-or-crashing-for-nintendo-switch)

## Minecraft on Nintendo Consoles 

You can play Minecraft: Bedrock Edition on Nintendo Switch and Wii U consoles.   

### Where can I buy Minecraft for Nintendo Switch? 

You can buy Minecraft: Bedrock Edition in the eShop on your Nintendo device. It's priced at \$29.99 or your local equivalent and comes bundled with some of our most popular add-on packs.   

You can also purchase [Minecraft: Deluxe Edition for \$39.99](https://minecrafthelp.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/11211565784589).

### What features does it have? 

For information about platform-specific features, please check out the eShop page for specific editions: 

- [Minecraft: Bedrock Edition for Nintendo Switch](https://www.nintendo.com/games/detail/minecraft-switch/) 
- [Minecraft: Wii U Edition](https://www.nintendo.com/games/detail/minecraft-wii-u-edition) 

For information about the most up-to-date features for these editions, please check the version history: 

[Nintendo Switch and Wii U](https://minecraft.gamepedia.com/Legacy_Console_Edition_version_history)   

### Where can I get help with the Nintendo editions of Minecraft? 

- For help with your games, purchases, accounts, or hardware, please visit [Nintendo Customer Support](https://www.nintendo.com/consumer). 
- For technical support with your Nintendo device, visit [Nintendo Customer Support](http://techforums.nintendo.com/community/). 
- If you have suggestions or want to take part in discussions, you can check out [Minecraft Forums](https://www.minecraftforum.net/forums/minecraft-editions). 
- You can find additional information in the [Minecraft for Nintendo Switch FAQ](https://support.xbox.com/en-GB/help/games-apps/game-titles/minecraft-switch-edition-faq). 
- If you think you've found a bug, you can report it in the [Minecraft bug tracker](https://bugs.mojang.com/secure/Dashboard.jspa).   

### What is Minecraft: Bedrock Edition? 

Minecraft: Bedrock Edition has been the codebase on mobile and Windows 10 and above since 2012. 

### How does this version differ from the one I already own? 

Minecraft: Bedrock Edition delivers a united experience to players on all platforms that use this codebase. Build with friends via cross-play on other console platforms and mobile devices, play multiplayer mini-games through servers, and customize how you play with community content available through the in-game Marketplace. 

### I already own Minecraft: Nintendo Switch Edition, so how do I get this new version? 

Players who already own Minecraft: Nintendo Switch Edition can download the new version of Minecraft: Bedrock Edition free of charge. Either follow the prompts in-game to download or find it directly in the Nintendo eShop. 

### Will downloadable content (DLC) I currently own transfer over to the new version of Minecraft: Bedrock Edition? 

All existing DLC content will be transferred automatically from Minecraft: Nintendo Switch Edition to Minecraft: Bedrock Edition. 

### What’s a Microsoft account and why do I need it for a Nintendo Switch? 

A Microsoft account is a free account you use to sign in on a device that allows Minecraft: Bedrock Edition players on Switch to play with others on non-Nintendo devices such as iOS, Android, Xbox One, and Windows 10 (and above) via cross-play, Realms, or Servers.

Having a Microsoft account also enables the portability of your Minecoins and Marketplace purchases to other devices and platforms. For more information go to the Xbox.com article, [Minecraft for Nintendo Switch FAQ](https://support.xbox.com/en-GB/help/games-apps/game-titles/minecraft-switch-edition-faq). To create an account, go to the [How to Manage Parental Consent, Family Settings and Realms/Multiplayer Access for a Child Account](../Minecraft-Bedrock-Edition/How-to-Manage-Parental-Consent-Family-Settings-and-Realms-Multiplayer-Access-for-a-Child-Account.md) page. 

### Now that I have a Microsoft account, how do I sign into it from my Nintendo Switch? 

- On the Minecraft: Bedrock Edition game home screen, click **Sign in with a Microsoft account**. 
- You’ll see a screen asking you for a unique eight-digit code. 
- Enter the URL shown on the screen on another device (PC or mobile phone). 
- Follow the instructions on the website by entering the code and to finish signing into your Microsoft account.   

### How do I find my friends on their Microsoft account? 

- Now that you’ve signed into your Microsoft account, select **Play** on the home screen. 
- Toggle to the right onto the **Friends** tab. 
- Select the button to **Add Friend**.
- Find friends by entering their Microsoft Gamertags. 

### I keep entering my friend’s Gamertag into cross-platform friends and can’t find them. Why? 

Make sure you enter your friend’s Gamertag correctly. Please note that you are only able to enter Microsoft Gamertags. Player IDs from other platforms are not supported at this time. You can also try having your friend add you instead to see if that works for you. 

### Do I need to pay a subscription fee like Xbox Game Pass Core to play online? 

Online subscription fees are determined by the platform you play on, so an Xbox Live subscription is not required for Nintendo Switch players, but a Nintendo Switch Online subscription is required for multiplayer when that service launches. We recommend a free Microsoft account for players to get the most out of Minecraft: Bedrock Edition. 

## What is Minecraft Marketplace? 

The Minecraft Marketplace is the name of our in-game store. New character skins, textures, and worlds made by creators in the Minecraft community are available through the Marketplace for Minecraft: Bedrock Edition. With Minecraft Marketplace, we've made it safer and easier to purchase community-made content for Minecraft: Bedrock Edition. Buy content once while signed in with a Microsoft account and enjoy it on any supported device with no expiration. 

### What are Minecoins? 

Minecoins (Minecraft coins) let you buy content from creators in our Marketplace, safely and securely. You can purchase them with real currency in the game store and eShop. Coins are kept in your virtual wallet and can also be used on Minecraft: Bedrock Edition for Android, iOS, Chromebook, Xbox One and Xbox Series consoles, and Windows 10 (and above) if you have a Microsoft account. 

## Do my existing worlds transfer? 

Yes, your existing worlds from Minecraft: Nintendo Switch Edition will convert over to Minecraft: Bedrock Edition.  

## How To Transfer Worlds from Wii U to Nintendo Switch  

You can move your saved world files from Minecraft on the Nintendo Wii U to Minecraft: Bedrock Edition on the Nintendo Switch.   

- Turn on both your Wii U and your Switch and launch Minecraft. They will both need to be on for the transfer.     
  **Tip**: The easiest way to do this is to have the Wii U connected to the TV and the Switch in handheld mode.  
- **Play Game** on the Wii U, then on the main menu of the Wii U edition of Minecraft, press **Play Game**.  
- Connect to Nintendo Network; you must be online.    
- Highlight the desired save file, then hover over the save file you wish to transfer.  
- Access **Save Options** and select **Transfer save to Nintendo Switch.** Press **X** to access **Save Options**.  
- Confirm save file transfer and then press the **OK** button.  
- Wait for the Switch to accept the transfer. Once completed, press **Play Game** on your Nintendo Switch, then on the main menu on the Switch, press **Play Game**.   
- Connect to Nintendo Network; you must be online.   
- On the **Load** tab, press **Y** to select **Transfer save from Wii U**.    
- Confirm save file transfer and press **OK**.  
- When a connection with the Wii U is established and the transfer is complete on the Wii U and on the Switch, confirm the transfer for both.   
- Access the **Load** tab and load the transferred save file. On the **Load** tab, where you normally load your worlds, you should see the newly transferred save file. Select it and enter the world. 
- Enjoy the world on your Switch! 

### How do I transfer existing worlds from Minecraft: Bedrock Edition for Nintendo Switch to another version of Minecraft? 

*In Minecraft: Bedrock Edition:* 

- If you select the **Sync Old Worlds** button at the bottom of the worlds list in the play menu, it finds any worlds on the device from the Minecraft: Nintendo Switch Edition (developed by 4J Studios) and displays them below the button. 
- Select any of the newly found worlds to convert them Minecraft: Bedrock Edition. 
- After conversion, the world shows up above the **Sync Old Worlds** button with the rest of your Bedrock worlds. 

### How big are worlds in this version of Minecraft: Bedrock Edition for Nintendo Switch? 

World size is infinite in Minecraft: Bedrock Edition for Nintendo Switch. 

### I’m playing in a world that was transferred from the previous version. Does it have any size limitations? 

Transferring to Minecraft: Bedrock Edition changes the world type to infinite, keeping the portions of the world from the 4J version the same, but generating new chunks outside of that area. 

### Can I play Realms on this edition? 

Yes, Realms is available on Minecraft: Bedrock Edition for Nintendo Switch. To play online on a Nintendo Switch, you must have a Nintendo Switch Online subscription, so this is a requirement for playing on Realms. Learn more information about [Nintendo Switch Online](https://www.nintendo.com/switch/online-service). 

### What additional content is included? 

The Super Mario Mash-Up Pack is preinstalled with the game. You can download the remaining content (Natural Texture pack, Biome Settlers Skin pack, Battle & Beasts Skin pack, Campfire Tales Skin pack) from the in-game store. 

### Can my friends on Xbox play the Super Mario Mash-Up? 

No, the Super Mario Mash-Up is playable only by Nintendo Switch owners in single player, split screen, local network, and over Nintendo Switch Online. 

### How do I link my previous purchases on other Minecraft: Bedrock Editions to my Switch version? 

Log into Minecraft and sign into your Microsoft account. All your content will sync automatically with other purchases you’ve made with Minecraft: Bedrock Edition on other platforms. 

### I own Minecraft: Nintendo Switch Edition and I've purchased previous DLC. How do I get it to sync to Minecraft: Bedrock Edition? 

- Log into Minecraft: Nintendo Switch Edition on your Nintendo Switch account. This will sync the latest purchases. 
- Log into Minecraft: Bedrock Edition on your Nintendo Switch and you'll automatically be granted the entitlements for that DLC. 

**Note: For every purchase, you made on the previous version, you must first log into Minecraft: Nintendo Switch Edition, exit, and then launch Minecraft: Bedrock Edition for your purchases to sync. DLC purchased within Minecraft: Nintendo Switch Edition will remain only on your Nintendo Switch device and will not transfer to other devices. **

## Issues with Lagging or Crashing for Nintendo Switch 

If you are experiencing any issues with lagging, crashing, or hanging on the Switch, you may be able to solve your issue with a full restart.  

- Fully restart your console from the power options in settings.   
- Select and launch Minecraft without opening other games or apps.   

**Note: If this did not solve your issue, as a temporary workaround, try not signing into a Microsoft account. While you won't have access to servers, Realms, or possibly Marketplace content, you can play single-player & split-screen worlds.  **

**Additional note: Please note that the Nintendo Switch is an older console, and it may struggle to run newer versions of Minecraft: Bedrock Edition.**

If you still have issues with gameplay performance, contact [Minecraft Support](https://aka.ms/Minecraft-Support) or submit a [bug report here](https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/bugs).
