---
title: Experience Mod Minecraft Experience Promotion Terms and Conditions
date: 2024-10-16T18:14:24Z
updated: 2025-03-26T20:57:49Z
categories: Events & Promotions
tags:
  - section_26562723671949
link: https://help.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/31114589569805-Experience-Mod-Minecraft-Experience-Promotion-Terms-and-Conditions
---

**Experience Mod Minecraft Experience Promotion Terms and Conditions**

1.  These Minecraft Experience Promotion Terms and Conditions (the “Minecraft Experience Promotion Terms”) set out the terms and conditions for participation in the promotion operated by Experience Mod LLC (“Experience Mod”) under which you will receive a Minecraft in-game item for free after you purchase a ticket and attend Minecraft Experience Villager Rescue (the “Minecraft Experience Promotion”). All applicable terms and conditions set out in the Minecraft Experience Terms of Use (*[Minecraft Experience Terms of Use](https://www.minecraftexperience.com/terms/)*) shall also govern this Minecraft Experience Promotion.
2.  **Minecraft Experience Promotion details**:
    1.  **Free Minecraft Digital Item**: A Minecraft Experience Cape that can be used in-game.
    2.  **How do I get the promo code for the Minecraft Experience Cape?**
        1.  You must purchase a ticket and attend Minecraft Experience.
        2.  After you redeem your ticket and attend Minecraft Experience, you will receive a promo code for the Minecraft Experience Cape.
        3.  If you purchased multiple tickets in a single order and attended Minecraft Experience with multiple friends and family, each guest attendee will receive a promo code for the Minecraft Experience Cape. Subject to the Microsoft Services Agreement (aka.MS/MSA). Except as required by law codes cannot be redeemed or exchanged for cash, are not refundable, and are not transferable.
        4.  The promo codes for the Minecraft Experience Cape will be distributed via one of two different methods that will vary in each tour city as follows:
            1.  In select tour cities, each guest who attends will be given a printed card with a promo code when the guest exits Minecraft Experience. Promo codes will not be distributed via e mail in these cities and the only way to receive a promo code will be to attend and receive a promo code card upon exiting the experience.
            2.  In other tour cities where a card with promo code is not distributed, each ticket purchased will receive a post visit e mail after attending Minecraft Experience with the number of promo codes that corresponds to the number of tickets that were purchased.
    3.  **How do I redeem the promo code for the Minecraft Experience Cape?**
        1.  The promo code for the Minecraft Experience Cape will be provided in the form of a Minecraft 5X5 code which can be redeemed for the free Minecraft Experience in-game item.
        2.  To redeem a promo code, visit Minecraft.net/redeem, enter the 5X5 promo code in the box for this Minecraft Experience Promotion, and follow any additional on-screen instructions.
        3.  Only one (1) Minecraft Experience digital item available through this Minecraft Experience Promotion may be redeemed per Microsoft Account. If you have more than one promo code for a particular Minecraft Experience item, you may give away the promo code(s) for free to a family member, friend, or any other Minecraft Experience player. You are not permitted to sell promo codes obtained through this Minecraft Experience Promotion.
        4.  Each promo code is unique and cannot be used more than once.
    4.  **Promo Code Expiration Date:** The promo code for the Minecraft Experience Cape must be redeemed no later than thirty (30) days after the Minecraft Experience closing date in the tour city where you have attended. To avoid disappointment due to promo code expiration, please redeem your promo code for the Minecraft Experience Cape as soon as possible after you attend Minecraft Experience.
3.  The digital item available under this Minecraft Experience Promotion is for the computer game Minecraft Bedrock Edition (sold separately). The digital item(s) available under this Minecraft Experience Promotion are not available for other versions of Minecraft. Minecraft Bedrock Edition and a Microsoft Account are both required to redeem and use any digital item(s) available under this Minecraft Experience Promotion.
4.  The Minecraft Experience Promotion is not administered by Microsoft Corporation or Mojang AB. Minecraft Experience is a trademark of Mojang Synergies AB and is used with permission from Microsoft Corporation.
5.  Individuals under 18 years of age must have the permission of a parent or guardian to participate in the Minecraft Experience Promotion.
6.  All promo codes must be redeemed by the applicable expiration date. Promo codes that are not redeemed by the applicable expiration date will be forfeited.
7.  Promo codes and anything else that may be provided to you under this Minecraft Experience Promotion: (i) cannot be exchanged; (ii) have no cash value; (iii) are not for resale; and (iv) are void if sold or exchanged.
8.  Experience Mod is not responsible for lost, late, illegible, incomplete, invalid, unintelligible, misdirected, technically corrupted or garbled submissions or promo code redemption attempts, which will be disqualified, or for problems of any kind, whether caused by any of the equipment or programming associated with or utilized in the promotion or by any technical or human error which may occur in the processing of the submission in the promotion. Experience Mod assumes no responsibility or liability for any error, omission, interruption, deletion, theft or destruction, or unauthorized access to, or alteration of submissions or promo code redemption attempts.
9.  Promotions are provided “as is” and specifically disclaims all implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, title, and non-infringement, and all warranties arising from course of dealing, usage, or trade practice. Experience Mod makes no warranty of any kind that the free Minecraft Experience digital items or other benefits available under this Minecraft Experience Promotion, or any use thereof, will meet your or any other person’s requirements, operate without interruption, achieve any intended result, be compatible or work with any specific software, system, or other services, or be secure, accurate, complete, free of harmful code, or error-free, or that any errors or defects can or will be corrected.
10. IN NO EVENT WILL EXPERIENCE MOD, ITS AFFILIATES OR THEIR LICENSORS, SERVICE PROVIDERS, EMPLOYEES, AGENTS, OFFICERS, OR DIRECTORS BE LIABLE FOR DAMAGES OF ANY KIND, UNDER ANY LEGAL THEORY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS MINECRAFT EXPERIENCE PROMOTION, INCLUDING ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PERSONAL INJURY, PAIN AND SUFFERING, EMOTIONAL DISTRESS, LOSS OF REVENUE, LOSS OF PROFITS, LOSS OF BUSINESS OR ANTICIPATED SAVINGS, LOSS OF USE, LOSS OF GOODWILL, LOSS OF DATA, AND WHETHER CAUSED BY TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE), BREACH OF CONTRACT, OR OTHERWISE, EVEN IF FORESEEABLE. THE FOREGOING DOES NOT AFFECT ANY LIABILITY WHICH CANNOT BE EXCLUDED OR LIMITED UNDER APPLICABLE LAW.
11. By participating in this Minecraft Experience Promotion, you agree to release and hold harmless Experience Mod, its affiliates, licensors and representatives and agents (including any third parties who assist in the administration of this promotion) and the respective directors, officers and employees of each from any and all liability from claims, injuries, losses or damages of any kind, including without limitation, death and bodily injury, resulting, in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, from the awarding, delivery, acceptance, use, misuse, possession, loss, or misdirection of any reward or participation in this Minecraft Experience Promotion, or any promotion-related activities.
12. This Minecraft Experience Promotion is governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the U.S. state of Delaware and shall be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts in that state.
13. For information about how Experience Mod uses your personal information, please see the Minecraft Experience Privacy Policy at: *[Minecraft Experience Privacy Policy](https://www.minecraftexperience.com/privacy-policy/)*
