help/Minecraft-Realms-Plus/Realms-in-Minecraft-Bedrock-Edition-Preview-and-Beta-FAQ.md, before:

---
title: "Realms in Minecraft: Bedrock Edition Preview and Beta FAQ"
date: 2023-10-10T17:12:23Z
updated: 2023-10-24T17:04:26Z
categories: Minecraft Realms Plus
tags:
  - title_minecraft
  - platform_xbox_one
  - platform_windows_10
  - platform_ios
  - platform_android
  - subject_creating_a_realm
  - platform_nintendo_switch
  - category_realms_support
  - subject_extending_a_realm
  - platform_sony_playstation_4
  - platform_linux
  - platform_macos
  - platform_pc
  - platform_PC
  - platform_macOS
  - platform_xbox_series_x/s
  - platform_windows10/11
  - platform_windows_10/11
  - section_12618443219469
  - platform_sony_playstation_5
  - platform_chromebook
  - title_minecraft_java_bedrock_for_pc
link: https://help.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/20264295053709-Realms-in-Minecraft-Bedrock-Edition-Preview-and-Beta-FAQ
---

We’re excited to announce that as of October 11th, Realms are available in Preview and Beta in Minecraft: Bedrock Edition! Preview/Beta Realms are available to any active Bedrock Realms subscribers. Read below to learn how Preview/Beta Realms work and how they are different from your regular Realm. 

For more information on Preview Realms in general, please refer to [this article](../Community-Guides/Minecraft-Preview-FAQ.md).

If you're looking for Minecraft: Java Edition Snapshot Realms, please refer to [this article](../Minecraft-Java-Edition-Technical/Realms-in-Minecraft-Java-Edition-Snapshot-FAQ.md).  

**Note: ‘Beta’ and ‘Preview’ Realms are cross-platform compatible. From now on, this article will use ‘Preview’ to refer to both Beta and Preview Realms.**

# In This Article:

- [Where can I learn more about Minecraft: Preview? ](#where-can-i-learn-more-about-minecraft-preview)
- [How to use Realms in Preview](#how-to-use-realms-in-preview)
- [What is different in Minecraft Realms in Preview?  ](#what-is-different-in-minecraft-realms-in-preview)
- [Will this change increase my Realms subscription price? ](#will-this-change-increase-my-realms-subscription-price)
- [Can I transfer worlds between a Preview Realm and my Regular Realm? ](#can-i-transfer-worlds-between-a-preview-realm-and-my-regular-realm)
- [Are Preview Realms and Java Edition Snapshot Realms the same, or are they cross platform with each other? ](#are-preview-realms-and-java-edition-snapshot-realms-the-same-or-are-they-cross-platform-with-each-other)
- [Steps for creating a Minecraft Preview Realm](#steps-for-creating-a-minecraft-preview-realm)

## Where can I learn more about Minecraft: Preview? 

[This article](../Community-Guides/Minecraft-Preview-FAQ.md) details everything you need to know about Minecraft: Preview. 

## How to use Realms in Preview

Every Bedrock Realms subscription now comes with the ability to create a Preview Realm. If you have an active Realms subscription and are part of a Preview program on any of the following platforms, you will have the option to create a Preview Realm tied to each of your active subscriptions: 

- Beta on Android  
- Preview on iOS, Xbox, or Windows  

Having your Preview Realm linked to your subscription ties it to the regular Realm generated from that subscription. If you cancel your subscription, it will cancel both your regular Realm and your associated Preview Realm.   

Although your regular Realm will be tied to the same subscription, the two Realms will be entirely separate from each other - none of the members, worlds, and settings will carry over between the Realms. This separation ensures nothing happens to your regular Realm. The only thing in common with both a regular Realm and a Preview Realm is that both with be cancelled if you end your Realms subscription.

## What is different in Minecraft Realms in Preview?  

Preview Realms allow you to play the newest experimental features on a Realm with your friends. You’ll also have access to all of the features you’re used to on your regular Realm, except for subscription purchasing and management. To purchase or manage a Realms subscription, you will need to use the regular version of Bedrock.

## Will this change increase my Realms subscription price? 

Nope! Your Realms subscription price will remain the same.

## Can I transfer worlds between a Preview Realm and my Regular Realm? 

To transfer worlds between regular Realms and Preview Realms, you can download your world from your normal Realm, create a new world slot in your Preview Realm, and upload your downloaded world to that slot.

## Are Preview Realms and Java Edition Snapshot Realms the same, or are they cross platform with each other? 

Regular Bedrock and regular Java Edition Realms are entirely separate, each with their own separate subscription. Snapshot and Preview Realms behave the exact same way – they are entirely separate from one another. A Bedrock Realms subscription does not entitle you to a Snapshot Realm, and a Java Realms subscription does not entitle you to a Preview Realm.

For more information on Java Snapshot Realms, please refer to [this article](../Minecraft-Java-Edition-Technical/Realms-in-Minecraft-Java-Edition-Snapshot-FAQ.md).

## Steps for creating a Minecraft Preview Realm

If you have an active Realms subscription, you will see a prompt on the play screen to create a free Preview Realm.   

**Note: If you’ve switched to Preview’s new user interface, you’ll have to swap back to the old one to access this menu.  **

![Step 1.png](https://minecrafthelp.zendesk.com/hc/article_attachments/20271264795533)

Creating a Preview Realm ties that Realm to the same subscription as your regular Realm. Cancelling that subscription will cancel both your regular Realm and your Preview Realm.   

![Step 2.png](https://minecrafthelp.zendesk.com/hc/article_attachments/20271223000845)

If you have multiple Realms subscriptions, you can select which subscription to tie to your new Preview Realm. You can then create an additional Preview Realm for each subscription you have through the create new world screen after creating your first one.   

![Step 3.png](https://minecrafthelp.zendesk.com/hc/article_attachments/20271223008909)

Commit message:

sync: refactor link database, no more database.json

help/Minecraft-Realms-Plus/Realms-in-Minecraft-Bedrock-Edition-Preview-and-Beta-FAQ.md, after:

---
title: "Realms in Minecraft: Bedrock Edition Preview and Beta FAQ"
date: 2023-10-10T17:12:23Z
updated: 2023-10-24T17:04:26Z
categories: Minecraft Realms Plus
tags:
  - title_minecraft
  - platform_xbox_one
  - platform_windows_10
  - platform_ios
  - platform_android
  - subject_creating_a_realm
  - platform_nintendo_switch
  - category_realms_support
  - subject_extending_a_realm
  - platform_sony_playstation_4
  - platform_linux
  - platform_macos
  - platform_pc
  - platform_PC
  - platform_macOS
  - platform_xbox_series_x/s
  - platform_windows10/11
  - platform_windows_10/11
  - section_12618443219469
  - platform_sony_playstation_5
  - platform_chromebook
  - title_minecraft_java_bedrock_for_pc
link: https://help.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/20264295053709-Realms-in-Minecraft-Bedrock-Edition-Preview-and-Beta-FAQ
hash:
  h_01HCDJHHW6D0S2VM3XY3YR1NMR: in-this-article
  h_01HCDJDVPSHEM4FSJ9AQX9K05E: where-can-i-learn-more-about-minecraft-preview
  h_01HCDHYEF87JB2H2XZ5EKWVPJH: how-to-use-realms-in-preview
  h_01HCDJAJEWDJBVCN33YFCWKPDD: what-is-different-in-minecraft-realms-in-preview
  h_01HCDJB7GP8F8H9A3M8H05SR89: will-this-change-increase-my-realms-subscription-price
  h_01HCDJCPK7T9HAFNGPBXSPETW5: can-i-transfer-worlds-between-a-preview-realm-and-my-regular-realm
  h_01HCDJCW4RTW91H8RW5SFEWHR1: are-preview-realms-and-java-edition-snapshot-realms-the-same-or-are-they-cross-platform-with-each-other
  h_01HCDJSA7HK93DVNYKBS9288Z6: steps-for-creating-a-minecraft-preview-realm
---

We’re excited to announce that as of October 11th, Realms are available in Preview and Beta in Minecraft: Bedrock Edition! Preview/Beta Realms are available to any active Bedrock Realms subscribers. Read below to learn how Preview/Beta Realms work and how they are different from your regular Realm. 

For more information on Preview Realms in general, please refer to [this article](../Community-Guides/Minecraft-Preview-FAQ.md).

If you're looking for Minecraft: Java Edition Snapshot Realms, please refer to [this article](../Minecraft-Java-Edition-Technical/Realms-in-Minecraft-Java-Edition-Snapshot-FAQ.md).  

**Note: ‘Beta’ and ‘Preview’ Realms are cross-platform compatible. From now on, this article will use ‘Preview’ to refer to both Beta and Preview Realms.**

# In This Article:

- [Where can I learn more about Minecraft: Preview? ](#where-can-i-learn-more-about-minecraft-preview)
- [How to use Realms in Preview](#how-to-use-realms-in-preview)
- [What is different in Minecraft Realms in Preview?  ](#what-is-different-in-minecraft-realms-in-preview)
- [Will this change increase my Realms subscription price? ](#will-this-change-increase-my-realms-subscription-price)
- [Can I transfer worlds between a Preview Realm and my Regular Realm? ](#can-i-transfer-worlds-between-a-preview-realm-and-my-regular-realm)
- [Are Preview Realms and Java Edition Snapshot Realms the same, or are they cross platform with each other? ](#are-preview-realms-and-java-edition-snapshot-realms-the-same-or-are-they-cross-platform-with-each-other)
- [Steps for creating a Minecraft Preview Realm](#steps-for-creating-a-minecraft-preview-realm)

## Where can I learn more about Minecraft: Preview? 

[This article](../Community-Guides/Minecraft-Preview-FAQ.md) details everything you need to know about Minecraft: Preview. 

## How to use Realms in Preview

Every Bedrock Realms subscription now comes with the ability to create a Preview Realm. If you have an active Realms subscription and are part of a Preview program on any of the following platforms, you will have the option to create a Preview Realm tied to each of your active subscriptions: 

- Beta on Android  
- Preview on iOS, Xbox, or Windows  

Having your Preview Realm linked to your subscription ties it to the regular Realm generated from that subscription. If you cancel your subscription, it will cancel both your regular Realm and your associated Preview Realm.   

Although your regular Realm will be tied to the same subscription, the two Realms will be entirely separate from each other - none of the members, worlds, and settings will carry over between the Realms. This separation ensures nothing happens to your regular Realm. The only thing in common with both a regular Realm and a Preview Realm is that both with be cancelled if you end your Realms subscription.

## What is different in Minecraft Realms in Preview?  

Preview Realms allow you to play the newest experimental features on a Realm with your friends. You’ll also have access to all of the features you’re used to on your regular Realm, except for subscription purchasing and management. To purchase or manage a Realms subscription, you will need to use the regular version of Bedrock.

## Will this change increase my Realms subscription price? 

Nope! Your Realms subscription price will remain the same.

## Can I transfer worlds between a Preview Realm and my Regular Realm? 

To transfer worlds between regular Realms and Preview Realms, you can download your world from your normal Realm, create a new world slot in your Preview Realm, and upload your downloaded world to that slot.

## Are Preview Realms and Java Edition Snapshot Realms the same, or are they cross platform with each other? 

Regular Bedrock and regular Java Edition Realms are entirely separate, each with their own separate subscription. Snapshot and Preview Realms behave the exact same way – they are entirely separate from one another. A Bedrock Realms subscription does not entitle you to a Snapshot Realm, and a Java Realms subscription does not entitle you to a Preview Realm.

For more information on Java Snapshot Realms, please refer to [this article](../Minecraft-Java-Edition-Technical/Realms-in-Minecraft-Java-Edition-Snapshot-FAQ.md).

## Steps for creating a Minecraft Preview Realm

If you have an active Realms subscription, you will see a prompt on the play screen to create a free Preview Realm.   

**Note: If you’ve switched to Preview’s new user interface, you’ll have to swap back to the old one to access this menu.  **

![Step 1.png](https://minecrafthelp.zendesk.com/hc/article_attachments/20271264795533)

Creating a Preview Realm ties that Realm to the same subscription as your regular Realm. Cancelling that subscription will cancel both your regular Realm and your Preview Realm.   

![Step 2.png](https://minecrafthelp.zendesk.com/hc/article_attachments/20271223000845)

If you have multiple Realms subscriptions, you can select which subscription to tie to your new Preview Realm. You can then create an additional Preview Realm for each subscription you have through the create new world screen after creating your first one.   

![Step 3.png](https://minecrafthelp.zendesk.com/hc/article_attachments/20271223008909)
