help/Minecraft-Java-Edition-Technical/Realms-in-Minecraft-Java-Edition-Snapshot-FAQ.md, before:

---
title: "Realms in Minecraft: Java Edition Snapshot FAQ "
date: 2023-10-05T21:41:36Z
updated: 2023-10-13T17:29:18Z
categories: "Minecraft: Java Edition Technical"
tags:
  - title_minecraft_java_edition
  - platform_windows_10
  - subject_creating_a_realm
  - category_realms_support
  - platform_linux
  - platform_macos
  - platform_pc
  - platform_PC
  - platform_macOS
  - platform_windows_10/11
  - section_12618497714061
  - title_minecraft_java_bedrock_for_pc
  - subject_new_or_existing_subscription_questions
link: https://help.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/20143730191245-Realms-in-Minecraft-Java-Edition-Snapshot-FAQ-
---

We’re excited to announce that as of October 11th, Realms are available in Minecraft: Java Edition Snapshots! Snapshot Realms are available to any active Java Realms subscribers. Read below to learn how Snapshot Realms work and how they are different from your regular Java Realm. 

For more information on Java Snapshots, please refer to [this article](./Minecraft-Java-Edition-Snapshot-FAQ.md).

If you're looking for Minecraft: Bedrock Edition Preview/Beta Realms, please refer to [this article](../Minecraft-Realms-Plus/Realms-in-Minecraft-Bedrock-Edition-Preview-and-Beta-FAQ.md).  

**Note: While this article specifically mentions Java Snapshots, this Realms functionality will work on Pre-Releases and Release Candidates as well.**

# In This Article:

- [Where can I learn more about Java Snapshot?](#where-can-i-learn-more-about-java-snapshot)
- [How to use Realms in Snapshots](#how-to-use-realms-in-snapshots)
- [What is different in Minecraft: Java Edition Realms in Snapshot?  ](#what-is-different-in-minecraft-java-edition-realms-in-snapshot)
- [Will this change increase my Realms subscription price? ](#will-this-change-increase-my-realms-subscription-price)
- [Can I transfer worlds between a Java Snapshot Realm and my Regular Realm? ](#can-i-transfer-worlds-between-a-java-snapshot-realm-and-my-regular-realm)
- [Are Java Edition Snapshot Realms and Bedrock Edition Preview Realms the same, or are they cross platform with each other? ](#are-java-edition-snapshot-realms-and-bedrock-edition-preview-realms-the-same-or-are-they-cross-platform-with-each-other)
- [Steps for creating a Java Snapshot Realm](#steps-for-creating-a-java-snapshot-realm)

## Where can I learn more about Java Snapshot?

For more information on Java Snapshots, please refer to [this article](./Minecraft-Java-Edition-Snapshot-FAQ.md).

## How to use Realms in Snapshots

Every Java Realms subscription now comes with the ability to create a Snapshot Realm. If you have an active Java Realms subscription, you will have the option to create a Snapshot Realm tied to each of your active subscriptions.

Having your Snapshot Realm linked to your subscription ties it to the regular Java Realm generated from that subscription. If you cancel your subscription, it will cancel both your regular Java Realm and your associated Snapshot Realm.   

Although both Realms will be tied to the same subscription, the two Realms will each be entirely separate from each other - none of the members, worlds, and settings will carry over between the Realms. This separation ensures nothing happens to your regular Java Realm. The only thing in common with both a regular Java Realm and a Snapshot Java Realm is that both will be cancelled if you end your Java Realms subscription.

**Note: A Snapshot Realm will update to the Snapshot version the Realm owner is on when they join. If an owner joins the Realm with an updated or downgraded version of Snapshot, the Realm will switch to that version, and members will have to join using that same version.**

**Additional Note: There are risks to downgrading your Snapshot Realm, including data loss and potential world corruption. Only connect to your Snapshot Realm with a downgraded Snapshot version if you’re aware of these risks.  **

## What is different in Minecraft: Java Edition Realms in Snapshot?  

Snapshot Realms allow you to play the newest experimental features on a Java Realm with your friends. You’ll also have access to all of the features you’re used to on your regular Java Realm. You’ll even have access to the April Fools Snapshots as well!

## Will this change increase my Realms subscription price? 

Nope! Your Realms subscription price will remain the same.  

## Can I transfer worlds between a Java Snapshot Realm and my Regular Realm? 

To transfer worlds between regular Java Realms and Snapshot Realms, you can download the latest backup of your world from your regular Java Realm, create a new world slot in your Snapshot Realm, and upload your downloaded world to that slot.

This process also works in reverse, although downgrading a world version can result in world corruption or data loss. 

**Note: Snapshot Realms will be available starting with Snapshot 23w41a, and all snapshots moving forward. However, Realms Snapshot version support will change over time.**

## Are Java Edition Snapshot Realms and Bedrock Edition Preview Realms the same, or are they cross platform with each other? 

Regular Java Edition Realms and regular Bedrock Edition Realms are entirely separate, each with their own separate subscription. Snapshot and Preview Realms behave the exact same way – they are entirely separate from one another. A Bedrock Realms subscription does not entitle you to a Snapshot Realm, and a Java Realms subscription does not entitle you to a Preview Realm.  

For more information on Bedrock Preview Realms, please refer to [this article](../Minecraft-Realms-Plus/Realms-in-Minecraft-Bedrock-Edition-Preview-and-Beta-FAQ.md).

## Steps for creating a Java Snapshot Realm

If you have an active Java Realms subscription, you will see a prompt on the Java Realms screen to create a free Snapshot Realm. Note that you will be able to see your regular Java Realms even in Snapshots, but you will not be able to join or edit them in Snapshots.   

![Screenshot 2023-10-05 173501.png](https://minecrafthelp.zendesk.com/hc/article_attachments/20270511282701)

Creating a Snapshot Realm ties that Realm to the same subscription as your regular Java Realm. Cancelling that subscription will cancel both your regular Java Realm and your Snapshot Realm.   

![Screenshot 2023-10-05 173558.png](https://minecrafthelp.zendesk.com/hc/article_attachments/20270527343757)

Snapshot Realms will show the regular Java Realm they are paired with when hovered over.   

![Screenshot 2023-10-05 174045.png](https://minecrafthelp.zendesk.com/hc/article_attachments/20270511304205)

If you have multiple Java Realms subscriptions, you can select which subscription to tie to your new Snapshot Realm. You can then create an additional Snapshot Realm for each Java Realms subscription you have through the create new world screen after creating your first one.  

![Screenshot 2023-10-05 170950.png](https://minecrafthelp.zendesk.com/hc/article_attachments/20270511309709)

Commit message:

sync: refactor link database, no more database.json

help/Minecraft-Java-Edition-Technical/Realms-in-Minecraft-Java-Edition-Snapshot-FAQ.md, after:

---
title: "Realms in Minecraft: Java Edition Snapshot FAQ "
date: 2023-10-05T21:41:36Z
updated: 2023-10-13T17:29:18Z
categories: "Minecraft: Java Edition Technical"
tags:
  - title_minecraft_java_edition
  - platform_windows_10
  - subject_creating_a_realm
  - category_realms_support
  - platform_linux
  - platform_macos
  - platform_pc
  - platform_PC
  - platform_macOS
  - platform_windows_10/11
  - section_12618497714061
  - title_minecraft_java_bedrock_for_pc
  - subject_new_or_existing_subscription_questions
link: https://help.minecraft.net/hc/en-us/articles/20143730191245-Realms-in-Minecraft-Java-Edition-Snapshot-FAQ
hash:
  h_01HCD9913WA04P07Z53559GG97: in-this-article
  h_01HCFWM181CT9Y4X8T461BCCSD: where-can-i-learn-more-about-java-snapshot
  h_01HCD8K7YGF2DK0F0BN9EBKVPQ: how-to-use-realms-in-snapshots
  h_01HCD8K7YG3D2VP3ZNNG9N3798: what-is-different-in-minecraft-java-edition-realms-in-snapshot
  h_01HCD8K7YGWZB013X4P6XCAHDE: will-this-change-increase-my-realms-subscription-price
  h_01HCD8K7YGSZF5CEFDHPKX30YX: can-i-transfer-worlds-between-a-java-snapshot-realm-and-my-regular-realm
  h_01HCD8K7YGK385WHP0XCRYDG2W: are-java-edition-snapshot-realms-and-bedrock-edition-preview-realms-the-same-or-are-they-cross-platform-with-each-other
  h_01HCDH68FZ33S9ET6YJ7MHCXWR: steps-for-creating-a-java-snapshot-realm
---

We’re excited to announce that as of October 11th, Realms are available in Minecraft: Java Edition Snapshots! Snapshot Realms are available to any active Java Realms subscribers. Read below to learn how Snapshot Realms work and how they are different from your regular Java Realm. 

For more information on Java Snapshots, please refer to [this article](./Minecraft-Java-Edition-Snapshot-FAQ.md).

If you're looking for Minecraft: Bedrock Edition Preview/Beta Realms, please refer to [this article](../Minecraft-Realms-Plus/Realms-in-Minecraft-Bedrock-Edition-Preview-and-Beta-FAQ.md).  

**Note: While this article specifically mentions Java Snapshots, this Realms functionality will work on Pre-Releases and Release Candidates as well.**

# In This Article:

- [Where can I learn more about Java Snapshot?](#where-can-i-learn-more-about-java-snapshot)
- [How to use Realms in Snapshots](#how-to-use-realms-in-snapshots)
- [What is different in Minecraft: Java Edition Realms in Snapshot?  ](#what-is-different-in-minecraft-java-edition-realms-in-snapshot)
- [Will this change increase my Realms subscription price? ](#will-this-change-increase-my-realms-subscription-price)
- [Can I transfer worlds between a Java Snapshot Realm and my Regular Realm? ](#can-i-transfer-worlds-between-a-java-snapshot-realm-and-my-regular-realm)
- [Are Java Edition Snapshot Realms and Bedrock Edition Preview Realms the same, or are they cross platform with each other? ](#are-java-edition-snapshot-realms-and-bedrock-edition-preview-realms-the-same-or-are-they-cross-platform-with-each-other)
- [Steps for creating a Java Snapshot Realm](#steps-for-creating-a-java-snapshot-realm)

## Where can I learn more about Java Snapshot?

For more information on Java Snapshots, please refer to [this article](./Minecraft-Java-Edition-Snapshot-FAQ.md).

## How to use Realms in Snapshots

Every Java Realms subscription now comes with the ability to create a Snapshot Realm. If you have an active Java Realms subscription, you will have the option to create a Snapshot Realm tied to each of your active subscriptions.

Having your Snapshot Realm linked to your subscription ties it to the regular Java Realm generated from that subscription. If you cancel your subscription, it will cancel both your regular Java Realm and your associated Snapshot Realm.   

Although both Realms will be tied to the same subscription, the two Realms will each be entirely separate from each other - none of the members, worlds, and settings will carry over between the Realms. This separation ensures nothing happens to your regular Java Realm. The only thing in common with both a regular Java Realm and a Snapshot Java Realm is that both will be cancelled if you end your Java Realms subscription.

**Note: A Snapshot Realm will update to the Snapshot version the Realm owner is on when they join. If an owner joins the Realm with an updated or downgraded version of Snapshot, the Realm will switch to that version, and members will have to join using that same version.**

**Additional Note: There are risks to downgrading your Snapshot Realm, including data loss and potential world corruption. Only connect to your Snapshot Realm with a downgraded Snapshot version if you’re aware of these risks.  **

## What is different in Minecraft: Java Edition Realms in Snapshot?  

Snapshot Realms allow you to play the newest experimental features on a Java Realm with your friends. You’ll also have access to all of the features you’re used to on your regular Java Realm. You’ll even have access to the April Fools Snapshots as well!

## Will this change increase my Realms subscription price? 

Nope! Your Realms subscription price will remain the same.  

## Can I transfer worlds between a Java Snapshot Realm and my Regular Realm? 

To transfer worlds between regular Java Realms and Snapshot Realms, you can download the latest backup of your world from your regular Java Realm, create a new world slot in your Snapshot Realm, and upload your downloaded world to that slot.

This process also works in reverse, although downgrading a world version can result in world corruption or data loss. 

**Note: Snapshot Realms will be available starting with Snapshot 23w41a, and all snapshots moving forward. However, Realms Snapshot version support will change over time.**

## Are Java Edition Snapshot Realms and Bedrock Edition Preview Realms the same, or are they cross platform with each other? 

Regular Java Edition Realms and regular Bedrock Edition Realms are entirely separate, each with their own separate subscription. Snapshot and Preview Realms behave the exact same way – they are entirely separate from one another. A Bedrock Realms subscription does not entitle you to a Snapshot Realm, and a Java Realms subscription does not entitle you to a Preview Realm.  

For more information on Bedrock Preview Realms, please refer to [this article](../Minecraft-Realms-Plus/Realms-in-Minecraft-Bedrock-Edition-Preview-and-Beta-FAQ.md).

## Steps for creating a Java Snapshot Realm

If you have an active Java Realms subscription, you will see a prompt on the Java Realms screen to create a free Snapshot Realm. Note that you will be able to see your regular Java Realms even in Snapshots, but you will not be able to join or edit them in Snapshots.   

![Screenshot 2023-10-05 173501.png](https://minecrafthelp.zendesk.com/hc/article_attachments/20270511282701)

Creating a Snapshot Realm ties that Realm to the same subscription as your regular Java Realm. Cancelling that subscription will cancel both your regular Java Realm and your Snapshot Realm.   

![Screenshot 2023-10-05 173558.png](https://minecrafthelp.zendesk.com/hc/article_attachments/20270527343757)

Snapshot Realms will show the regular Java Realm they are paired with when hovered over.   

![Screenshot 2023-10-05 174045.png](https://minecrafthelp.zendesk.com/hc/article_attachments/20270511304205)

If you have multiple Java Realms subscriptions, you can select which subscription to tie to your new Snapshot Realm. You can then create an additional Snapshot Realm for each Java Realms subscription you have through the create new world screen after creating your first one.  

![Screenshot 2023-10-05 170950.png](https://minecrafthelp.zendesk.com/hc/article_attachments/20270511309709)
